all marital problems stem from two
things and that's what about sex how
often is sex the issue in divorce oh my
God James ston the world's number one
divorce lawyer specializing in
billionaires athletes and celebrities
for over two decades giving him a unique
insight into how relationships fail and
succeed there's about a 56% chance that
your marriage will end in divorce yet
86% of people agree Mar within 5 years
but most people have no idea what they
are getting themselves into and a great
example of that would be prenups who
gets what when they break up correct and
the most shocking prenup I've ever seen
said that for every 10bs the wife gained
she would lose $10,000 a month in
alimony 10 lb of weight and that was
enforceable do money issues lead to
divorce oh it's controversial what's the
quick if someone's gone from Marriage to
divorce 48 Hours who cheats more men or
women you'll be shocked to hear it's
have you ever seen violence during a
divorce they ran her over four times and
stabbed her Jesus Christ so here's the
question then should we get married and
then do you think love is a terrible
idea I think it's insane to love
anything because
someday that'll be gone and this thing's
going to break my heart no matter what I
lose but that's not a reason not to love
and I I think there's something really
important
there congratulations diio gang we've
made some progress 63% of you that
listen to this podcast regularly don't
subscribe which is down from
69% our goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guests get
thank you and enjoy this episode
James I've never spoken to somebody that
does what you do what do you do I'm a
divorce lawyer I'm a divorce lawyer who
represents people in contested divorce
and custody proceedings in court so it's
the fact that you've never spoken to
someone who does what I do is a good
thing it it it means that either you've
not married or it means that you've
successfully married to the point where
you would never end up in my office by
the time someone sets foot in my office
something's gone terribly wrong in their
life because no one ever meant to meet
me no one ever meant to be in my office
ever what is the probability that
someday I do meet somebody like you and
not in this context well if you marry
there's about a 56% chance that your
marriage will end in divorce now that
doesn't take into consideration how many
people may consult with a divorce lawyer
because they're having difficulty in
their marriage but they choose
subsequent to meeting me not to divorce
for some particular reason whether
that's they don't want to part with half
of their funds or they've just decided
it's easier to stay miserable and with a
person or they're staying together for
the kids but they wanted to know what
their rights were so if you marry the
the chances of meeting someone like me
are are more likely than not if we look
at it that way because it's more than
50% so it's a it's a high number you
know but if we Define failure as all of
the other things you've described there
we kind of stay together but we're
miserable or we stay together for some
other reason how what percentage of
marriages
on that basis do you think actually
fail I mean if we consider the if we
consider failure staying together
miserable for the children or staying
together for financial economic reasons
and then we add that to the 56% that end
in divorce then I mean it would be very
hard to track that but I I think it's
generous to think it's another 20%
probably but but I mean think about what
that adds up to that means that you've
got you've got something that fails 70
75% of the time that's a that's a
negligent activity that's uh you know
that's that is more likely than not to
cause significant harm in your life so I
I I don't say that to sound like the
Grim Reaper when it comes to marriage I
I actually really think marriage is a
lovely thing and I get MTI eyed at
weddings like anybody um and not just
for you know future business purposes um
I I I I think I think the statistic
that's even more interesting to me
than how many marriages end in divorce
or how many people stay together
miserable is that 86% of people who
divorce remarry within five years so
think about that now you've you've done
this thing it's failed you've gone
through this difficult process of having
to undo it and now within five years 86%
of people remarry I mean so that that
tells you how important this is to us as
humans how drawn to this idea this
technology of marriage we are and and
that to me is fascinating
because I I've often said like I'm not
sure what marriage was designed what
problem is marriage designed to
solve see the fact that it takes this
long to think if I said to you what what
purpose does this technology this mug
what does it serve well that's easy
right it's hard to drink out of your
hands and someone would have to keep
coming up and pouring things in our
hands okay well that's pretty
straightforward what what problem does
this solve well that's easy right we we
want to get you know the ring stains
around we get yelled at by our
significant other for not using a
coaster so these are easy things but
marriage something so ubiquitous that
it's assumed it's assumed if you're
dating someone for a few years and you
say guess what we're getting married
everyone goes of course phenomenal
congratulations that's great of course
you're going to do do that you know you
make an honest woman of her of course
whereas if you say you know we we've
been together for 3 4 years we decided
we're not going to get married people go
o what's wrong with this guy he's got
intimacy issues he's not getting Mar you
know what's the problem that you don't
want to get married whereas rationally
the response should be you know oh yeah
we're getting married what are you
kidding me why are you doing that it's
like someone saying I'm going to go
skydiving it's like wait are you crazy
that's a dangerous thing to do you know
and it's not I mean listen skydiving
it's not like the 75% 76% of people die
who are skydiving so the truth is like
it it it makes very little sense to me
that marriage is assumed to be a thing
you will do when in fact we as a species
are so unbelievably bad at it that sort
of 86% that then get remarried after
divorce are they then have they learned
from their mistakes are they better at
this time it's different this Time It's
Different it's this time I'm really in
love that other time when I thought I
was in love that wasn't it this time
it's different it really it's it's it's
a blind spot you know and again where
does it come from you'd have to ask
people smarter than me you know it could
be Neuroscience it could be the realm of
a real deep social psychology it could
just be a cognitive bias I have no idea
it could be a delusion brought on by
inadequate lighting you know but but the
whatever it is we go oh yeah but this
one's different this one I I did a prup
last week for a guy who went through the
one of the ugliest divorces I've ever
seen and that's not hyperbole like I've
been doing this for 25 years just to say
so for me to say the ugliest divorce
I've ever seen is that's amazing that's
like that's a really big deal that's
like a michelene chef saying this was
the best meal I've ever had so this guy
had a horrific divorce that lasted four
or five years he's remarrying a woman 30
years younger than him who he met four
months ago and when I said to him as
artfully and tactfully as I could you
know you you've only known this person
for a short time and you know have you
thought about maybe just you know being
a little cautious in terms of you've
seen how difficult a divorce can be you
know do you think maybe it might be he I
oh no this is I've never felt anything
like this I've never been this in love
I've never been so connected with
someone we just get each other and you
know the it would be very indelicate and
rude for me to say like snap out of it
man you got to get your like really you
know bring your logical brain to this
this equation do not bring the part of
you that's just filled with romance and
has Christmas in your eyes like really
you got to look at this
honestly do you see a lot of gold
diggers do you see a lot of gold digger
sort of um patterns I.E you see someone
that's incredibly wealthy you see see
someone that's I know 40 years younger
than them yeah yeah I see a lot of that
I mean I you know I'm hesitant to say
gold diggers because I think that has a
a pejorative like built into it that
that that somehow I think that that
people bring different things to the
table in relationships I I I think love
is an economy and I don't I'm not saying
that in a way that that devalues love I
think that love is a verb I think that
love is an emotion and I think that love
is an economy you know there there is a
a giving and taking of value and and
that can be incredibly symbiotic you
know that can be incredibly healthy and
wonderful that that you know I am way
too serious and the person who I'm with
is going to bring lightness and levity
to the relationship and I'm going to
help them be a little more serious and
they're going to help me lighten up you
know and I'm hard charging and
hardworking and everything's like 10
moves ahead and And my partner's going
to like help me calm down and help me
you know not be so hard charging and and
be a little softer and be a little
Kinder and rest my head and give me a
sort of warm place to do that like
that's beautiful we're each bringing
something different so if I'm a powerful
hardworking financially successful
financially secure man and I meet a
young beautiful woman who has energy and
excitement and who has tremendous gifts
but doesn't have the resources to be
able to do much with that you know like
she's a talented artist but you know
she's busy working you know a thankless
awful job you know like slinging
cappuccinos you know and and she she's
not able to in this Prime of her life
focus on this thing she's so talented at
and I can say to her Hey listen why
don't you focus on that and I have
resources and abundance of them and I'm
happy to share them with you and and
feel like I'm part of your success and
you in turn are part of My Success
because you give me this wonderful
respit from the chaos of my work and and
like I don't think that that's a
dishonest economy I don't think that so
like to say a gold digger sort of
implies like oh she's in it for the
money and it's like okay well I'm in it
for the beauty you know so does that
mean I'm a horrible shallow person or is
beauty beautiful is beauty something you
want to be around and and if we're
honest about the interaction how is that
predatory how is that unfair to either
of us you know if if we're honest about
it like what's harder for me to deal
with is when I have a client who is you
know 150 pounds overweight 5
foot7 um and and there is just nothing
about him that aesthetically or even
personality wise a woman would go oh
that's my guy but he's a billionaire you
know and and he's got a young gorgeous
woman who's allegedly madly in love with
him and he really believes that it's his
personality and has nothing to do with
with the fact that he's a billionaire or
that that is a very small consideration
that feels to me like the worst kind of
of delusion you know whereas you could
very honestly say like yeah we each
bring different things to the table we
each bring different things to each
other's lives and then yeah so it is it
is a quote unquote gold digger but you
know it's also a man who wants to to to
buy the company of someone who might not
otherwise be interested in him if he
wasn't successful so I think there's a
there's a give and a take in that
relationship I think that's very fair
have you have you seen examples of the
the latter example where you know you
describe that billionaire where there's
not many redeeming qualities
where they're heading towards
marriage they don't yet have a
prenup you're maybe advising them that
they should get a prenup and they're not
interested because they're so deluded by
the belief that the person is interested
in their wonderful personality or yeah
so so the prenup conversation is a
really interesting one because I I I do
a lot of prenups let just Define what
prup is sure prenuptual agreement is a
contract between two people that defines
the rule set essentially for their
marriage so so marriage when we talk
about marriage you know people tend to
just sort of use the word marriage and
they're actually talking about a number
of different things like in some context
marriage is a spiritual commitment right
it's a religious commitment it's tied to
in Catholic ISM it's a Sacrament in in
Judaism it's a covenant with God you
know in Islam it has its own status so
marriage exists as a religious concept
socially we have a definition of
marriage right like I am married to this
person we have married our Destinies to
each other we have agreed that we are
each other's person and then marriage
has a specific legal definition and my
job as a divorce lawyer is to take that
piece apart for someone or to create
protections for people who are
contemplating entering into that legal
status so like you you've been to
weddings right I'm sure you've never at
the end of the wedding said um great
guys I had a wonderful time the cake was
delicious um I need to see the paperwork
can I can I see the license now I just
want to make sure everything was done
properly and that there were witness
you've never said that you've never said
to your your parents can I see your
marriage license I'd like to make sure
everything's in order here that's not
how works like we don't do that so you
could go have a wedding and tell people
that you're married and never actually
legally marry you could just tell people
that you're married you don't check
people's paperwork like you can just
wear a ring if you want to and similarly
if you don't wear a ring it doesn't mean
you're not legally married like you
could be legally married and still take
your ring off and you're still legally
married if it was just as easy as taking
the ring off I'd be out of a job so
marriage is a legal status that's one of
the meanings of marriage and a
prenuptual
agreement the way I would describe it is
two people deciding that they having
picked each other out of8 billion people
to choose from in the world are in a
better position to make the rules that
will govern the economics of their
relationship then the legislature would
be then politicians would be and anyone
who's ever been to the Department of
Motor Vehicles or who's ever been to you
know any government agency very rarely
would you interact with a government
agency and go we should definitely put
these people in charge of our our family
life like they're going to do a great
job they're they're really crushing it
you know like that's not something
people yet most people who are married
have almost no idea what legal rights
and obligations were conferred on them
by getting married they they just have
no idea it's the most legally
significant thing they're going to do in
their life other than die and they have
no idea what their rights and
obligations are and those rights and
obligations can change so like politics
and the legislature and the way that
rules that govern the spousal support
rights child support rights the division
of property those are subject to change
by government change so for example in
the United States um alimony spousal
support maintenance whatever we want to
call it which is a payment a person
makes to their spouse when there's been
an economic disparity in the marriage
and now they're getting divorced
fored that used to be tax deductible it
used to have no formula it was at the
discretion of a judge then in 2016 Trump
came into office and he said yeah I'm
not letting it be tax deductible anymore
so completely changed now you're already
married at this point and now the rules
about what governs your marriage have
changed so there aren't a lot of
contracts in the world that people could
enter into that the terms could wildly
change due to circumstances beyond your
control and you're still in that same
contract so prenuptual Agreements are
designed for two people who at that
moment have an abundance of affection
for each other if they didn't then
there's no reason that they should be
getting married that they make up a rule
set that's going to govern their
relationship and that typically as we
see it in movies and such and we hear
about it in culture is really deciding
who gets what when they break up right
correct now it's hard to say in advance
who gets what when we break up sometime
in the future because we don't know what
we're going to have in 10 years in 20
years so what do you do you create
structures like you create you know I I
refer to the simplest prenup as a Yours
Mine and Ours which is if it's in my
name whether it's an asset or a
liability it's mine free from any Claim
by you free from any obligation to you
if it's in your name it's yours free
from any Claim by me any obligation to
me ours if it's in our joint names then
we're equally responsible for it if it's
an obligation or we equally are entitled
to half the value of it if it's an asset
that to me just creating those three
buckets now here's the problem you
create those three buckets you both sign
off on it and you get married you can't
just set it and forget it now you
actually have to have conversations with
this person that you're married to which
theoretically you should be able to do
right like if you've decided this is
going to be my primary relationship this
is the person I'm going to tie my
destiny to you should be able to talk
about hey I just got this big bonus at
work I'm going to put this much in my
soul account and I'm going to put this
much in the joint account and then you
should be able to say if you're the
other person well why why are you
putting so much of it in your personal
account like are things weird with us or
something or is there you know have some
conversation again about why are we
marrying it's it's that economy concept
which is look what do I owe you if I
marry you I'd like to know that in
advance because people say to me all the
time you know well I married this person
and uh when we got married uh he had
nothing he had nothing and he built his
business while he was married to me and
I was very you know there for him while
he was building it so therefore I
believe I'm entitled to half the value
of that business now that's a logical
argument I don't know that I agree with
it but it's logical but keep going with
that logic right so if that was true and
I built this business and my wife who
was married to me while I was building
that business she helped make that okay
well her mother and father helped make
who she is so I owe them something right
like I because if they hadn't done what
they did I wouldn't have her and if I
didn't have her I wouldn't have my
business so how much do I owe them and
you know now that I think about it her
grandmother definitely influenced who
her mother was which influenced who she
was which influenced what she did for me
so just can you let me know in advance
how far down the chain do I owe people
and how much do I owe them they can't
all get half so did they get half of the
half of the half or do I like and and if
this is the logic that we're going to
follow then I would like to know in
advance what that is because there are
no other transactions where if you went
into to purchase a car and you said how
much is this car and they said
money he said well how much you know
it's a good amount okay I again we just
keep talking in abstractions I'd like to
know what does this add up to how much
is it you know and even if you can't
make it a dollar number it's x% of last
year's earnings or like give me a
formula something to tie it to and at
least have that conversation because
then you can decide am I going to sign
up for this thing or not you must meet a
lot of people who are in a relationship
where one of the people doesn't want to
have a prup yes cuz I cuz I when I think
think about having a prup I'm with a a
woman at the moment we've been together
for 5 years um frankly if I said to her
I want to get a prenup she would be all
for it she would that's the type of
person she is she would be all for it
doesn't care she' be all for it
excellent um you've done well but I can
imagine in other relationships I'd be
nervous to even say the words because
immediately you're thinking about how
you're getting out before you get in
yeah well and you know there there's a
lot to that there's a lot to unpack
there so the first thing I would say is
all marriages end
they end in death or they end in divorce
but they all end right and so if you
said I'm going to get life insurance it
would be foolish for someone who's with
you to say wait are you planning on
dying soon like it no but in the event
that I do I'd like to make sure that
things are taken care of in a certain
way and in the event that I do there's
going to be enough things to be upset
and sad about for the people around me
so I'd like them to have one less thing
you know and I I I also know that
there's a possibility I hope I won't but
there's a possibility that I'm going to
die in an hour so i' really hope it
doesn't happen but I can't say it's
definitely not going to happen so
divorce you know when we look at
statistics like that it's okay to say
hey look you know what I hope this never
happens but if it did what do we owe
each other you know what would you need
like it's not just a conversation about
what do I want to keep what am I
entitled to keep it's also what would
what would you need have you seen it
break down a marriage because someone
mentioned a prup have you seen it yeah
I've seen marriage I've seen marriages
that were scheduled to to happen not
happen because the prenup discussion
happened but more often than not I've
seen the threat of not marrying someone
because they want you to sign a
prenup cause a person to fold in their
request for a prenup which to me is a
really bad start for a marriage so I've
had a lot of clients who come in say
look I I want to have a prenup I have a
lot of confidence in this marriage I
really love this person but I would like
to you know have a prenup in place and I
draft to PR up for them and it has
reasonable terms and they give it to
their fiance and their fiance says yeah
I'm not signing that it's not happening
and instead of saying okay like then
you're choosing for us to not marry you
know that's okay but like I love you and
I'd love to marry you but this is
something that I need in order to feel
comfortable with that um they they just
go okay yeah never mind and they walk
away from it and and um because they're
intimidated and I think that's a that's
an awful way to start marriage like I
think that's much worse than having a
discussion about difficult things
like I don't think you would think it's
irresponsible you've been with with a
woman for five years to say to her let's
say a year ago or let's say four years
ago to say to her you know we're going
to get in a fight sometime that's going
to happen like we're going to disagree
about something it'll probably be my
fault I'll probably say something stupid
I do that sometimes so when we get in a
fight someday which again I hope we
don't I'll do everything I can and not
ever get in an argument with you but at
some point some's goingon to you're
going to say something it's going to
hurt my feelings I'm going to take it
the wrong way I'll say something you'll
take it the wrong way or maybe I'm just
an idiot sometimes I'll be in a bad mood
and I'll say something or I'll have too
many drinks and I'll say something to
upset you when that
happens how do you how do you like to
fight like what's best do you need a
minute like do you need a minute to calm
down do you need to like sleep on it or
do you need to like we got to fix this
right now I can't go to bed angry like I
won't be able to sleep I won't be able
to function like like do we have to
address it right then and there because
you know the best time to talk about how
we're going to argue when we're not
arguing you know the worst time to learn
how to fight in the middle of a fight
that's the worst time to learn how to
fight so I like a prup I think a prup
can be a very romantic thing because
it's basically saying look I love you
you love me we want this thing to work
or else we wouldn't be signing up for it
but in the event it breaks down you have
a right to know what you're entitled to
I have a right to know what I'm entitled
to we both have an interest in making
sure that we both have the things we
need so that neither of us feels like
we're crawling out of this relationship
instead of walking out of it like if I
lose you I'm going to have a lot more to
be sad about than my stuff well boy let
me tell you not knowing where I'm going
to live or how I'm going to pay my bills
that's going to add a layer of pain and
complexity to what is undoubtedly going
to be a really hard situation so let's
take that off of each other let's let's
know that because I don't ever want the
person who lays their head on the pillow
next to me to be there because they
don't want to get
divorced I I would rather that it be
that they like having me there next to
them that their life is better because
I'm there that they feel like I bring
value to their life and they bring value
to mine not well I don't want to go
through all that in that case of that
person you referenced there where they
came to you for a prenup their partner
gave them an ultimatum and said listen
no I'm not signing that how do you kind
of draw the line between being a
lawyer versus like a therapist or an
advisor as sort of like a relationship
advisor yeah I mean I have to tell you
it's a very seamless I I don't um I
don't think it's easy to distinguish
between we're attorneys and counselors
at law my I have an undergraduate degree
in psychology M and I think I use it as
much as I use my law degree because this
is so
personal that it's very hard to not give
human advice while I'm giving legal
advice and I'm dealing in the clay of of
you know human emotion and human human
connection and human Frailty and human
emotional complexity I thought prenups
were illegal I thought they were like
people went and got them but they when
it comes to enforcement enforcement they
don't hold up you know it could be true
in the UK but it's certainly not in the
USA it's they they are enforcable they
are binding sometimes they're crazy how
enforcable they are really like it's
because the nature of a penup is as long
as it was not what's called
unconscionable unconscionable is a
contract that is so unfair that no fair
dealing person would offer it and no
sane person would accept it so that's
what unconscionability is so you have to
be a contract is to be unconscionable
for it to be set aside okay now I have
seen some prenups that were in their
interpretation unconscionable
meaning you know at the time they
entered into it he had nothing and she
had nothing and now they're getting
divorced and under the terms of this
he's going to walk out with $100 million
and she's going to walk out with almost
nothing but as long as it was not
unconscionable at the time it was
made if it's unconscionable in its
performance it's still binding so I have
seen the outcome of prenups sometimes be
shockingly
unfair but you have a right to contract
as long as it wasn't fraud as long as it
wasn't duress or undo influence or if
someone was under the you know uh
influence of drugs or alcohol when they
signed off on it it's a binding contract
because we believe in in in human
autonomy and agency and the right to
make decisions about your life and your
future so is that ex example really is
that the the most shocking one you've
seen no the most shocking prenup I've
ever
seen which was
enforcable um had a provision that said
that for every 10 pounds the wife gained
in the marriage she would lose $10,000 a
month in alimony 10 pounds of weight yes
yes so so it was very wealthy man who
was wear marrying a very attractive
woman but he was very concerned that she
was going to become less attractive and
he was going to become more wealthy so
his solution to this was in the
prenuptual agreement he wanted a clause
that said she would get if they divorced
she was going to get like
$70,000 a month for
alimony but for every 10 pounds she
gained from the date of marriage she
would forfeit 10,000 a month worth of
alimony and it was designed to sort of
create an incentive that she would
remain
thin and that was enforceable meaning
they tried to challenge and set aside
that provision and the court said this
is a disgusting provision I don't know
why you married this person but it's
enforceable it's a contract the two of
you signed it and you had a right to
sign it and you agreed to these rules
and they may be ridiculous rules but you
agreed to them and you have a right to
do that do you think that was
love again I I think it's a kind of love
I think it's a form of love I is it a
form of love I'd be interested in no I
think it's very shallow in some ways
there's something very honest about it I
mean you can't argue with the fact that
there's something very upfront about it
he was making very clear and putting in
writing here's the value you bring to
this relationship you know I consider
your physical appearance
vitally important to this relationship
and by the way don't skip the other side
of that equation yeah she was going to
get
$70,000 a month that's very impressive
number so you know I I think she she
also understood there was a value to be
attached to him as well you know and and
it's so
it's is it something I would be
interested in on either side of that
equation no but do I have a right to say
to someone that's not love
I I don't think I have a right to say
that to someone I think that if this is
an economy the two of you have agreed on
that you know as a lawyer see my my job
as a lawyer is not to look like I don't
look at it that way I look at the
engineering of it so like if I'm
representing her in that transaction all
I could think is okay so we're going to
want her Baseline weight to be as high
as
possible so I'm going to want her to
have pennies in her Pockets after at the
day we sign the prenup because you have
to establish a baseline right because if
you say gaining 10 pounds you'd have to
establish a baseline weight on the date
of the marriage so she was weighed on
the day of the marriage well in or about
the date of the marri the parties
acknowledge that on on her about the
date of marriage she weighed
approximately X pounds so if I'm her I
want that to be as high as possible so
I'm going to be putting pennies in my
pockets and eating as many cheeseburgers
as I can before the weighin now we're
getting divorced I'm going to be like a
wrestler I'm going to be in the sauna
I'm going to be sweating as much as I
can I'm going to take diuretics I'm
going to eat nothing but like grilled
vegetables for a week or two you know
and I'm going to I'm going to take off
every ounce of clothing I can because I
want to minimize my weight this is why
this is why lawyers don't get invited to
parties because that's how we analyze
problems like I didn't hear that and go
what is the nature of their coupling I
looked at it and I went oh I could play
with that I could look I could I could
whoever I'm representing in that
transaction I could figure out a way to
you know kind of make that
work you become a coach kind of is I
mean it it turns into an engineering
question as opposed to a human
question I heard about this thing when I
was reading your book of these um also
watching some of your stuff online that
I didn't know existed which was Fidelity
contracts Fidelity Clauses yeah Fidelity
Clauses yeah yeah so it's something
people include in prenuptual agreements
and also sometimes in what's called a
postnuptial agreement so a postnuptial
agreement you know nupal meaning
marriage pre meaning before marriage
post meaning after marriage so if you
didn't get a prenup but your marriage
for what whatever reason becomes fragile
maybe someone learns of an affair or
maybe you're starting to have
difficulties with each other but you
don't want to
divorce but you'd like there to be some
clarity as to if we divorce what will
the rules be you can do something called
a postnuptial agreement okay and and
that would in the event you divorce make
the divorce a little less acrimonious
because you've resolved certain issues
it's basically like the prenup you
should have had okay so I have seen
people in both prenups and in postnups
put in what's called Fidelity Clauses
which essentially are a clause that say
that if you cheat on your spouse here's
what the penalty will be and it could be
a financial penalty it could have you
know a support related context it could
have be a percentage of certain
ownership rights you know things that
you have are they a good idea from what
you've seen are they useful in I think
they're a terrible idea yeah from a
legal standpoint they're a terrible idea
for for a couple of reasons one defining
cheating is very tricky you know if if
you're if we're going to Define cheating
as a specific form of sexual
contact I guess that's a pretty clear
definition but but even infidelity it's
not all created equal I mean I think we
could all agree that if you if your
partner when they were drunk on vacation
or at a party you know had some kind of
fleeting sexual ual contact with another
person and then woke up the next day and
went oh my God what did I do I regret
this so much but they're never going to
see this person again it was just a
stupid diance it happened you know again
not excusing that behavior but that's
different than if you were having an
ongoing affair with another person or I
think there are probably some people if
they were being
honest if they said would you rather
that your spouse on a drunken Night Out
kissed somebody or was texting another
person five times a day for six weeks
and sharing the most intimate thoughts
you know and what we call an emotional
affair well I mean I I think we can
agree that like something about an
emotional affair like someone becoming
your Confidant there there I've once
heard someone say and I in my
professional life I found it to be true
that when men find out that a woman who
they're with has had an affair their
first question is did you sleep with him
when women find out a man had an affair
their first question is are you in love
with
her and I think that tells you a lot
about men and women's relationships
because there's a sense of okay what
what was this was this sex or was this
like I'm I don't love you anymore I
don't want you in my life anymore
because those are two really different
things and and so a Fidelity Clause is a
oniz fits-all concept that just says
okay we're going to Define
cheating and then there's 's going to be
a penalty for you doing it now again in
what I've observed in life cheating is
its own penalty cheating turns your life
at best cheating turns your life into
like an unbelievably complicated like
jumping from one foot to another lying
to everyone involved like rarely does
anybody get out of infidelity without
hurting themselves and a bunch of other
people whether it's not only their
partner but even the person who they
cheat with or or that person's partner
like there's so there's so much pain to
go around when when cheating happens and
so to say and there's going to be an
economic penalty you know it's a bit
like you know using drugs is a legal in
a lot of places but I can't imagine that
there's a heroin addict who goes you
know I'm going to shoot up oh wait it's
illegal I don't want to get in trouble
yeah I'm like that's not how it works
like you're adding insult to injury you
know this person they're already in a
very difficult position I don't think
making it illegal is going to do much
except create an underground economy
same kind of thing I I think that
infidelity there should be sufficient
incentives in a relationship to not
cheat and there there are already by
definition so many consequences for
cheating that adding to that an economic
penalty I don't know that a person's
going to be about to cheat and then go
this could cost me like 20 more Grand no
I'm not going to do it are you seeing
more and more people getting those
prenups yeah prenups are I have to tell
you there's a generational shift
happening I I see a lot of people in
their I've been doing this job for 25
years and I will tell you the people
currently in their 20s and early 30s
like the prime demographic for marriage
mid mid 20s to
mid-30s are getting prenups at a rate
that I would say is probably 5X what it
was 10 years ago 15 years ago certainly
25 years ago from when I started I think
there's a more pragmatic view of
relationships I think that there's
there's a lot more open discussion I
mean although there is a tremendous
increase in the amount of like
performative look how happy we are you
know meanwhile it's like you know white
teeth and rotting gums you know like
we're we're we're doing the performative
social media look at how great hash
blast and mean all our life is you know
is our relationship is is rotting from
the inside um and we see a lot of that
like I I I have tell you something I see
people in my office who publicly are
having the greatest relationships ever
like if you believe their social media
they are so madly in love and it shocks
me because I think about all the people
that are dissatisfied in their perfectly
acceptable relationship cuz it's not as
amazing as that relationship and
meanwhile that relationship is nowhere
near that amazing as they'd have you
believe it and and we've got the
audacity now as a culture that people
without any apology you know do the
we're perfectly happy these hateful
rumors that we're unhappy are terrible
and then we've decided to Amic be heart
ways we asked you to respect our privacy
during this difficult time and you're
like okay but wait a minute like a month
ago when there was rumors that the two
of you were splitting up you yelled at
all of us for saying it's so mean that
we're speculating and now you're like
yes we've split up so we were right so
we you were making us feel awful about
our elves and how madly in love you were
with each other but now you know we were
basing our lives like we're we're basing
our our our level of satisfaction on
watching your greatest hits while we
live our gag reel do you think there's
something in the idea that those that
endeavor to convince the world that
they're happy in their relationships are
often not as happy 100% I'll actually
extrapolate that further my my father's
a southerner so he has a lot of Southern
folksy things he says and one of them
was empty barrels make the most
noise and he used to say that to me when
I was a kid all the time whenever
somebody had something fancy that they
owned because I grew up without a lot of
money and they someone would drive a
beautiful car and say wow that car is so
cool he'd say you know empty barrels
make the most noise that that the people
that that have true joy in their
relationship really don't feel like they
have to advertise it people who have
like I I represent some of the
wealthiest people in the world like New
York is the epicenter of Commerce and
finance for the United States and and to
some degree for the world you know in
the UAE you're more likely to find a
goldplated Ferrari but in New York like
Finance Wall Street like it is it is the
home of it so I represent I have a
client who's worth $8 billion do you
would walk past him on the street you
would never know he has very much money
at all he drives a Jeep Grand Cherokee
which is like a very mid-range car he
wears like you know totally non-descript
clothing like he just looks like a
typical middle-aged dude and would not
look at him and go like he gets his
haircut at like Super Cuts for 25 bucks
like he's not Posh in the things that he
owns and does and he's he could buy you
know he his income annually is like the
gross domestic product of a few compan
of a few countries and you know he's not
but then yet I have clients who appear
to be incredibly wealthy and as a
divorce lawyer I get to see the
absolutely unfiltered version of
people's finances and I tell you they
are deeply in debt many of them you know
this is particularly true of celebrities
you know celebrities have to live these
big performative lives because if they
they don't you know drive a posh car and
they don't wear the the latest designer
labels there's this sense of oh are they
not doing well and especially with sort
of influencer culture you know there's
just so much like you know everything
everyone's wearing and doing has to be
the best of the best and the most
expensive I I find very often these are
the more people have to flaunt their
wealth the less wealth they probably
have like you know Money Talks Like
wealth Whispers And it's very
comfortable just Whispering it doesn't
feel like it has to prove to the world
in fact it it would rather that everyone
not know who it was there was a time
where Fame was an unfortunate side
effect of
talent so you were really good at
something so then everybody heard about
who you were and all of a sudden
everybody knew who you were and that was
UNT it cuz you couldn't go out to eat
anymore you couldn't just live your life
anymore now of course there were times
where it probably felt really nice you
know it feels good listen I I walked
down the street in New York City
sometimes people today guys said to me
hey man love your stuff thanks that's
great feels nice definitely nice there's
times where it doesn't there's times
where I'm on my phone I'm I'm in the
middle of talking to a client and
somebody's standing there next to me
waiting to talk to me and I know they're
waiting to say something so lovely but
there's a part of me it's like okay man
I I got to like do what I'm doing right
now I'm I'm doing the thing you know and
and now being famous is the goal for so
many people so I I think there is
definitely when people say look at how
happy we are look at how happy we are
look at how happy you know it's like
please tell me how happy we are because
if you don't tell me how happy we are
I'm GNA have to look at this
relationship and I'm going to see how
unhappy we are you know when someone
wants to be famous it's like tell me I
have value please tell me I have value
oh God please tell me I have value
because
you know the the reason I was never
really interested in being
famous is that the praise of strangers
never really felt that important to me
like if the people in my life think I
have something interesting to say and
care about me and like me that's really
meaningful to me and I'm touched for
anyone who's ever appreciated my work or
enjoyed it but I never said like I
really want to get out there and you
know have people know who I am and tell
me I'm smart because because I I know
I'm smart like it's okay like you know
my beliefs don't require you to believe
them and and so I I think this
performative culture when it comes to
relationships is an unfortunate thing
because again we're comparing ourselves
we can't help as a species but compare
ourselves to the things we see around us
why did you must see so much of that in
your office where someone comes in and
they say my marriage isn't working and
they use the they use a comparative
measure they say well you know and they
they're like this and we're not so right
but how much sex are they having how
much like how much sex is enough sex
like honestly like we don't talk about
these things we don't we don't there's
so much of our day-to-day life that
we're constantly feeling like we're not
doing well based on nothing like I don't
think I'm doing that well compared to
what I'm not good-look enough compared
to what a photoshopped image of a person
on steroids
yeah you're right you don't look like a
photoshoop person on steroids you're not
supposed to like women are going into
doctors offices saying make me look like
this and showing the doctor something
that's been
photoshopped that person doesn't look
like that like how would you know you're
not having enough sex how much sex are
people having is that frequent one sex
yeah sex is huge sex is huge it's well I
mean first of all it better be because
what's the difference between a spouse
and a roommate otherwise
like it was just like oh we're going to
be partners in a home together like you
don't have to marry each other to do
that you can just live together and be I
mean sex is the glue sex is the thing
that brings you together sex is what
makes a romantic relationship a romantic
relationship and again it can be any
number of varieties of sex it can be
preferences of sex it can be anything
but we don't talk about we talk about
all kinds of things in in polite Society
now if you can call it that I mean we
talk more than we ever did about you
know transgender issues and lgbtq plus
issues and I think that's progress I
think it's great that people can talk
about anything we can talk about Kink we
can talk about like I'm a big fan of
people being able to speak openly about
the things that make them happy and make
them feel good and you know not having
to feel ashamed about certain things but
Baseline like how how well we're not
having enough sex okay compared to what
the sex we used to have as a couple that
makes sense that makes sense to me like
if we said Baseline and say hey we used
to have sex every day when we first
started dating we had sex four times a
day okay but then the you know luster
wears off you know now we we used to
have sex once a day now once a week is
that okay is that natural is that part
of the progression of a relationship or
is that a sign that one or both of us
are feeling dissatisfied with each other
can we talk about that and not have it
be a fight can we talk about that and
not hear it as a as a something that we
have react defensively too and that's
that's the stuff I tried to talk about
in my book is that people come in and
they go well you know we're unhappy with
a child I was cheating on her but I was
cheating on her because she wasn't
sleeping with me well I wasn't sleeping
with him because he's never nice to me
well I'm not nice to her because every
time I talk to her all she does is put
me down okay and and you sit here going
okay so you guys have just been in this
death spiral you know just going down
and down and down you started at I love
you more than 8 billion other people in
the world but somehow you just started
to do this death spiral and now you're
right you won you guys you won you're
both right you don't have to sleep with
him you don't have to be nice to her you
don't have to say a kind word you don't
have to do any of that you don't have to
be married great news you don't have to
be married but you decided to be married
you signed up to be married so at some
point this made sense to you you liked
each other that much and you were both
pointing in the same direction and at
some point you lost the plot
so my feeling is wouldn't it be better
before you completely lose the plot to
just do the preventative maintenance
what's preventative
maintenance talk about are we still as
connected as we were are we still as
excited as we were are we still you know
are we still attracted to each other are
we still enjoying each other physically
mentally like emotionally we don't want
to do that though because it's
uncomfortable right okay lots of things
are uncomfortable that are so good for
you you know exercise is uncomfortable
until you get in a rhythm of it and it
feels really good you know so how how
would you know if the first time you
went to the gym and you worked out and
then you went home and you were like oh
my God I'm so sorry I'm never working
out again then you will never get into
an exercise routine you have to get
through that part where everything's
really sore and you're still sometimes
going to be sore you overdid it you know
but you start to realize yeah but it's
also bringing tremendous value to my
life you know and so why not like why
not trade what you want now which is
comfort in the moment for what you want
most which is real connection real
intimacy like real joy and and and that
can be and again we want it 86% of
people who get divorced wouldn't get
remarried within 5 years if we didn't
want it if we didn't believe it was
possible and if you've ever met someone
who is happily married over a long
period of time
you won the lottery like they're so
their lives are just so much better
because they just go I had this partner
because this is
terrifying like life is terrifying and
it's brutal and it and it and it ends it
invariably ends we're all going to die
everyone we love is going to die like
we're playing a game you can't win to
the utmost and to me to have a partner
in that someone who you can hold their
hand and go when you're scared I'll be
here for you and when I'm scared you'll
be here for me and you'll help me see my
blind spots and I'll help you see yours
and let's just do this thing and we'll
never be alone like what a gorgeous
thought that is what a beautiful thought
that is what a worthy Pursuit that is
but yeah you got to be uncomfortable
once in a while you got to tell each
other something other than what the
other person wants to hear once in a
while but to me like if the payoff is
real conect ction keeping real intimacy
keeping your partner happy and satisfied
with you so that the thought of
splitting up or running off with
somebody else is just a fleeting thought
that maybe occasionally jumps into their
head like that seems such a worthwhile
investment to
me preventative
maintenance I want to just drill down a
little bit into what that actually looks
like because there'll be a lot of people
right now including myself who heard you
use this term preventative maintenance
and immediately I thought Jesus Christ
CH I probably should do that a little
bit more sure what do you mean by
preventative maintenance it can be lots
of things I think it can be I try to
give a lot of examples but I I think
some of the simplest examples are very
small gestures of courtesy I mean think
about when you first started
dating all the little things that made
the back of your neck tingle about this
person like they would say the littlest
thing about you and it made you so happy
cuz they were noticing you you know and
they they they saw beautiful things in
you and that made you see and feel those
things in yourself you know that that's
a be amazing thing we can do for each
other you know and and
so I mean at its core level like the the
the the example I've given to a lot of
my male friends and and several of them
have done it and I've got a lot of
really good feedback on it is leave
leave a note just leave a note in the
morning when you leave for work or
wherever it is you're going just leave a
note you know it was so great hanging
out with you last night I'm with the
prettiest girl in the whole
world can't wait to see you again that's
it what does that take 10 seconds 10
seconds and and every guy I meet who I
say that to they go yeah the first time
I did it she was like what is going on
why did you leave me that note what are
you what what what is what's going on
but then after a little while like if
this is just something you do that you
go yeah I just you know I want to make a
practice of like how I want to tell you
this stuff I forget to tell you
sometimes you know like what does that
take like what does it take for your
partner to say to you you're so smart
like I just love being around you like
you're so handsome I'm so lucky like
what does that take that's nothing
doesn't cost anything takes nothing to
do that why don't we do it I don't know
I don't know I I think we just whoever
discovered water it wasn't a fish like I
think you're just in it and you just
stop seeing it and that person's just
there and again I don't know and I also
think culture is antagonistic to it cuz
the example I give to people because
people love their dogs and I love my
dogs but like dogs are a great way to
look at this rationally because I've got
a 13-year-old dog I got him when he was
a puppy now he's 13 and like me he
slowed down a lot his back hurts he's
not quite the puppy he used to
be I have never once looked at that dog
and gone I got to get a puppy this old
this old dog he didn't look as cute as
he used to and like oh my God if seen
how cute puppies are like I would never
it's my dog man I fall more in love with
that dog every single day you know and
yeah sure puppies are cute and they're
great and I'll pet them but that's my
dog man I wouldn't trade all the puppies
in the world for that
dog your partner your romantic partner
like what when did it become acceptable
as it as it is in in culture to just
just piss all over your partner like
every guy it's like the h I'm married to
the most loathsome harp you ever to
castrate a man like this one the old
ball and chain and women it's like the
guy is like oh this idiot like this just
lovable idiot you know he doesn't know
he doesn't know anything he's so stupid
men are so stupid like when did that
what do you think's going to come from
that other than this disdain that we can
then have for each other and this sort
of disrespect as opposed to being like
so into each other which is what you
were when you were strangers you know
when you didn't know each other you know
every all the same women sitting around
in a group of women talking about how
much their husbands suck when their
female friend goes oh my God I'm seeing
this guy I just started seeing what did
he oh my God he sounds so great all all
this is all this is is your guy five
years ago but somehow now you're you're
really GNA buy the
delusion that if she it all works out
with him and they get married and they
do their little fairy tail thing and the
cake and the dress and the whole thing
that in 5 years she's still going to be
like he's so great no it's going to be
again just like the rest of you so we
need to start as a culture you know
perhaps changing the way because I think
there is something about that where we
you know we're trying to like not make
people self-conscious so we just like
take the piss out of our partner all the
time in front of you know people or
around other people and I I don't find
that Charming do you think that will we
get get to The Lovable idia oh my God
happy wife happy all that stuff which is
part of culture what the hell happy wife
whoever said that should just be beaten
to death happy wife happy life like if I
hear one more person give that advice to
somebody I have to tell you that is just
the most ridiculous what does that even
mean happy wife happy life if she's
happy then I'm happy because is that
true I think I think it's used by men
who believe that their wife is always
unhappy so if she's not shouting at me
and I can just sit here and watch the
football yeah then all all is well is
that something to Aspire
too you know man I can't wait what for
someday for my kids to just sit there
while the up person in the other room is
just mildly dissatisfied with them and
they can just sit and watch you know the
football game really that's that's what
we're aspiring to that's what you hope
for like I got to tell I just don't I
think our goals are really misc LED you
know my greatest accomplishment in life
is my children really that's your
greatest accomplishment in life is your
children what let me ask you this what
will your children's greatest
accomplishment in life be having
children because guess what this is the
ideology of a cancer cell growth for the
sake of growth for the sake of growth
for the sake of growth reproduction for
the sake of reproduction I don't think
that's the highest noblest goal I think
there should be something in there about
Quality of Life about making the world
or the experience of others better like
again it's not for me to Define but but
I certainly I don't intelligence is hard
to Define but I can spot stupid a mile
away and I have to tell you a good
relationship you know it's kind of hard
to quantify but man I know what sucks I
know a bad relationship when I see one
and we all know them so what's more
uncomfortable that relationship where
you know Le she's not yelling at me and
she's only mildly dissatisfied and I can
just be left alone for an hour and watch
the
football or having to have an
uncomfortable conversation again while
you're still like each other but there's
a little slippage there's a little
something going in the other direction
and I don't want it to go too far I mean
put it into the physical context it is a
whole lot easier to maintain a healthy
weight than to gain a 100 pounds and
then try to figure out how to lose it
that's much much harder and it's much
worse for you and the chances of
actually accomplishing it are way lower
whereas maintaining a healthy weight
that's not an unrealistic thing to be
able to do is a I had sat here with a
one psychologist um who I'm sure you'll
know very famous individual um called
Jordan Peterson and he said to me he
said he was shouting when he said it he
said listen he was you're going to have
to sit down for 90 minutes a week and
you're going to have to listen to her
and she's going to tell you everything
that's wrong and he goes if you don't
listen to her for 90 minutes a week
you'll be listening to her in divorce
court and he was he was almost shouting
when he says it the analogy he's making
and what he's saying is what you're
saying yeah is you're going to have to I
you know Jord I I find Jordan Peterson
very entertaining I've been a fan of his
work a long time um and I I loved
actually your conversation with him um
what I will say is I think that he's
sort of hyperbolic in his presentation
sometimes which I I enjoy but I think we
totally agree on this I think that that
what he's saying more than anything is
that you can invest now in cander and in
listening to this other person in a
non-defensive manner and and so there's
a chapter in my book called hiten now
where I talk about exactly that where I
say you need to be able to have these
conversations but have them in a
way that that you're hearing it and
you're saying it you're agreeing it's a
contract that we know we love each other
so we're going to try to say it with
love we're going to try to hear it with
love because I'm only saying it cuz this
is important to me this relationship and
I want it to be good for you and for me
so I'm going to go out on the limb here
I'm gonna take this risk because you're
worth it you are worth it for me to take
this risk it's scary I'm not excited
about having to say it but you know what
like I care enough and when you say
things to me I'm going to hear it I'm
going to hear it as you saying I care so
much about this relationship I'm going
to say this harder thing to say and it
might be little it might be you know you
said the other night you were talking
about my sister sister and you made that
little joke about her and it felt like
you were like kind of making fun of my
sister and I thought you liked my sister
and it's really important to me that you
like my sister cuz I really like my
sister so maybe I misunderstood you and
if I did okay great let me know that hit
send now just hit send now the reason I
said hit s now is when
you you ever like write an email where
you said something important and you
like write it rewrite it and you craft
it and you're like about to hit send and
you're like oh
boy and then you hit it and you're like
well it's there now can on send it now
like it's done I hit send now that's
where I got the term hit send now
because but I but I said like make it a
technique like say to your partner I
want to do this I want you to do it and
I want to do it but I want to make it
clear like make the subject heading of
the email hitting send now okay so they
know so they know this is not an attack
this is something I want to get off my
chest you don't have to respond right
away you don't have to respond in
writing if you don't want to but I just
want to put this out there because I
want you to digest it and the key to
this is I read in your book is to do it
quickly yep and do it honestly yep yep
and and and to again to make a point of
calling this out as a technique when
you're in a good place so when you're
already in a good place there's an
abundance of Goodwill between us we're
in a good spot that's a good time to say
hey look this is good man and this is
important so let's keep it good and the
way we're going to do that is if I say
to you you know we used to I'm making an
example we used to have sex five times a
week and now I feel like it's like you
know once a week maybe and I I think
you're so attractive I love I love it
like I don't feel any less attracted to
you and I know you know we've been busy
and things like that but like I don't
want to see that slip I want you to be
the person that fills all my desires and
all my fantasies I don't want to look at
porn I don't want to think about other
things I want to really be focused on
you is there something I'm doing that
causing you to be less interested in me
is there something I could do that would
spark things better is there something
going on that I need to know in terms of
how you feel about me yeah but what if
it's personal and what if it's offensive
what if it's isn't it better to know if
it's personal and it's offensive isn't
it better to know like because I have
tell you I'll come up with a thousand
different reasons that might be and only
one of them might be accurate and the
other 999 might be complete garbage in
my mind like I might be convinced that
it's cuz you're cheating I might be
convinced that I'm not attractive to you
all of a sudden cuz you know my hair got
grayer or I got a bad haircut or
something stupid what if it's that then
wouldn't you rather know wouldn't you
rather know wouldn't you and find some
other and listen I'm not saying by the
way everything isn't everything right
like there are things in relationships
that you might just say yeah I don't
know that's changed like I used to be
really into that and no I'm not anymore
you know or that used to mean a lot to
me and now it doesn't and that gives
your partner a chance to say well look
it's still really important to me so can
we find some common ground how frequent
is sex the issue in divorce as in not
I'm not talking about Affairs I'm saying
sexlessness yeah that's a great question
so and also is it increasing yeah so
here's what I'll say there there's
reverse engineering the demise of a
marriage is a very difficult thing for
anybody to do because the two people in
the relationship aren't even really
fully aware of what's going on in
themselves much less each other and then
an outside Observer asking them so like
you can do all the studies you want of
people's self-reported satisfaction or
lack of satisfaction in a relationship
or what caused them to become
dissatisfied that is so loaded up with
people's delusion and people's
projection and all these other things
that I don't think you could quantifi so
everything I'm saying I'm saying as a
divorce lawyer who I think is empathetic
and who I think for a living puts myself
in other people's mind to try to
understand what they're doing and why
they did what they did and come up with
the best and worst possible excuses for
it and then to tell that story right
like I'm a full contact Storyteller
that's my job so and my job if you're
really honest is to manipulate people's
emotional state my job is to make a
judge feel good about my client bad
about the other side make the other side
feel scared make my client feel safe
that's my job is to manipulate
everybody's emotional state through the
power of Storytelling that's what being
a divorced lawyer is it sounds sexier
when I say it that way but that is what
it is so when we look at that as the
job where does sex fall into that
equation it's it's everywhere in that
equation because again it is the thing
that separates this relationship from
other kinds of relationships sex is a
thing that is definitional to a romantic
relationship now again will it always be
the same will it always stay at the same
level of importance no but is it a great
in the coal mine that you know like
something's off with the sex now that
that that that the tragedy's not far
behind yeah like because almost every
couple when I talk to my side of the
equation about when did this thing start
when did the ship start to sink there
was certainly some change in sex because
again sex is definitional in terms of
what distinguishes a romantic
relationship from a platonic
relationship because listen guys we can
do this however we want as a society we
don't have to get married we do not have
to get married we just have to we just
have to reproduce but we could just
decide hey we're just going to reproduce
and we're going to live in like colonies
of platonic you know relationships and
we'll just have sex for the purposes of
breeding at certain times and then we'll
figure out who gets to raise what kids
and that'll be that we don't do that and
and it's not like well we don't do that
because we made a set of rules societies
don't do that they've never really done
that like there there's somehow this
permutation in the human and animal
kingdom keeps coming up where we have
pair bonds and we reproduce with the
person who's our partner and then we
sort of work together and you know how
much does the tribe how much does the
rest of the world get involved in that
how extended is the family how extended
is the tribe that varies right from
species to species from culture to
culture from time to time but we this
fundamental idea of like reproduction
between you know the male and the female
of the species and there being some then
continued interaction and a sharing of
responsibilities towards the rearing of
the young it's pretty common right so
what's the thing that makes A and B it's
the sex like there's there's there's sex
there's some romantic or sexual
component to that relationship that then
leads to reproduction of some kind so I
think when you take that out of the
equation or when there's a change in
that there's a disruption in the force
right there's a disruption in the system
and then you can trace it back like yeah
we and again sometimes it's not direct
cause and effect like oh we started
having less sex so then we stopped being
nice to each other sometimes we stopped
being nice to each other so we stopped
having as much sex but it's an element
it's always an element there you know
and then that's my key piece of advice
to everyone in the book that I try to
say over and over and over again if you
had to like summarize it is pay
attention just pay attention
to to what you're feeling to what your
partner's feeling and then say it you
know I I I say that all marital problems
stem from two things I don't know what I
want and I don't know how to express it
and I think if you can figure that out
if you can figure out what you want and
figure out how to express it that's like
99% of the
battle when someone gets to you how
often do they go from getting to a Divo
lawyer having that conversation we want
to separate to repairing and rebuilding
and getting back to happiness yeah it's
a great question so I as my career has
progressed I am now a guy who you hire
when you're in a really bad situation so
I'm a trial lawyer so now you know you
can do things with a scalpel and you can
do them with a chainsaw I'm a chainsaw
now like now I'm you hire me because
your Situation's bad because you're more
expensive is that no I'm more expensive
because I'm really good in high conflict
situations I'm really tactical I'm
really strategic I think 10 moves ahead
and I outpace everyone with my work
ethic I wake up at 400 a. and I wake up
very sharp and I wake and I'm
immediately thinking about clients and
cases and I'm dedicated to this work in
an absolutely insane way in a way that
is in no way good as a human being it's
really really I'm a great lawyer I'm
questionable as a human being but I'm
really really good as a lawyer because
I'm better at this than I've ever been
at anything in my life have you ever
seen someone get to you and then go back
to perfect like yeah for many years in
my career early in my career the first
decade or more of my career when I
handled more sort of regular people's
divorces you know um yeah I would
frequently I would frequently try to
steer people if I thought that that was
possible I still to this day if I think
it's possible for people to work
something out either in individual
counseling or in individual counseling
and then maybe couples counseling I will
steer them in that direction of course
who cheats more men or women I think
both men and women cheat with a
tremendous amount of frequency I think
that um I don't think that you could
really say one does it more than the
other I think that
more more men men are accused of having
ruined the relationship by cheating than
women are who's more dissatisfied with
this the amount of sex men or women men
generally men want more sex men
generally want more sex women want more
quality sex men are quantity based when
in my experience coming to sex and
that's like men would rather have
frequent sex that may not be the highest
possible quality but it like kind of
gets the job done I mean it's the same
reason why pornography is more popular
with men than women I think that men are
just like I got to get the poison out of
my system here I got to get on with my
day and I'm not going to be able to
think straight until I just get that
over with and so I I think that that
um women it's it's a it's a different I
don't think women you know have don't
find sex important I I hate to make
generalizations about about gender um
but I from my seat the number of men
that come in and say to me like yeah
like she's just not sleeping with me
well what did she expect like of course
I slept with somebody else like she was
like sleeping with me once a week she
was sleeping with me once a month I've
had clients who came in were like yeah
we hadn't had sex in six years six years
like first of all why would you put up
with that second of all if you're this
person's spouse how what the hell did
you think was going on you thought
things were okay like yeah we haven't
had sex in six years we just forgot to
do that like I get it if you didn't
clean your gutters in six years or you
know maybe like I get it if you didn't
change your oil in a year like it's a
bad idea but like I get it I could slip
your mind like oh my God I been to the
dentist in a year but sex you must have
had a lot of affair stories oh my God
please if you could have like a PhD and
infidelity I would have it yeah I mean
it's because cheating is a huge
component to divorces so many divorces
but the question is always cause or
effect and the
danger of putting so much emphasis on
cheating is that it's an
oversimplification so someone comes in
and goes we're getting divorced why
because he's sleeping with his secretary
I get it like yes that's true that is
one of the variables that has led to
your divorce but you you hadn't slept
with him in three years so I'm not
saying that makes the cheating
forgivable but you're saying you had a
really super awesome healthy marriage
and then this nefarious secretary came
into the picture and suddenly he was
wooed away no there were conditions that
made that very likely to happen right
and so let's start going back a little
further in the cause like the truth is
at the bottom of a bottomless pit so we
can try to reverse engineer this and say
well he slept with his secretary because
you weren't sleeping with him I wasn't
sleeping with him because he wasn't nice
to me well I wasn't nice to him because
he was never paying any attention to me
well I wasn't paying attention to her
because what did I want to pay attention
to she's hasn't changed at all or she's
changed so much and she's nothing like
she used to be there and and again
everyone you'll be shocked to hear when
they tell the story of their life
they're usually the hero
they rarely come into my office and go
listen I'm a piece of
garbage you know but I will tell you
when it comes to cheating sometimes they
do I was going to say you must have had
people come in and admit things to you
about their current affairs that you
just blow your mind is there a
particular example where you go that was
the most shocking example that I'd heard
of someone deceiving the marital
commitment yeah I mean I've had people
come in and tell me stories that I just
think to myself like how how did you
actually like just the engineering of it
like I've had people who came in and
they had multiple they had two families
happening at once and neither of them
knew about the other like that that the
mistress who he started a family with
like thought he was divorced and the
wife thought that he was traveling for
business and like he would literally
have Christmas with both he would have
Thanksgiving with both like he would and
he just found a way to sort of
logistically do it I've seen things like
that many times I mean I've seen people
it's almost become a cliche that people
who sleep with their their sister-in-law
or their brother-in-law or cousin oh I
haven't seen mother-in-law yet
father-in-law um I have seen
father-in-law yeah I have seen
father-in-law yeah I saw that saw that
one I there's a chapter in my book about
nannies how people sleep with the nanny
that's pretty common why you talk in the
book about how wealthy clients like to
sleep with the nanny yeah I don't know
what that's about I mean I do I have a
theory about it and I I I think that
what I call the nanny Fascination I
think that it's not that hard to
understand like the nanny is a lot of
the characteristics of the wife right
she's good with the kids she's there to
be a supportive other to the husband um
she's a helpmate you know but without
any of the autonomy an agency without
any of the like she's an employee at the
end of the day so much simpler of a
relationship in the sense that it's like
you got to do a good job or I'm going to
fire you you know so not talking back
yeah don't talk back because I'm your
employer you know and you're not gonna
so I think I get it you know I get it I
also think too that and this is this is
this is Dangerous Ground especially in
the year of Our Lord 2024 but I think
she's also a version of the wife like
she's a version of the wife when the
wife was just the woman like she has a
life outside the home like she when
she's not nannying she's out doing stuff
and so she's got things to talk about
like she's gone places she does things
there's something mysterious about her
you know and I I think that's one of the
advice I give in the book is is that I
think that um wives can can embrace the
part of themselves that's the nanny like
take the time to like don't let your
spouse and your children Eclipse Who You
Are like who you are is who your husband
fell in love with like your your your
kids exist because a man and a woman
found each other attractive you know and
and so don't don't forget in your desire
to be a good parent and your desire to
be a good partner don't forget to be
really good to yourself and to to
cultivate your interests and your
passions and to try to enjoy them as
best you can you know without shirking
obviously none of us wants to Sher our
responsibilities to our families and to
our children but you're important like I
think I think people are the husband and
the wife you know are important or or in
a same-sex marriage husband husband wife
wife it's you're important to each other
you know remember who you are remember
the value you brought to the
relationship people often go to divorce
lawyers when their marriages break down
but listen I'm a huge fan maybe the
biggest fan you'll ever meet of serial
killer documentaries sure and just
murder documentaries period there's not
one I haven't seen I've seen them all
and in those documentaries the f one of
the first things you learn is that if
the wife goes missing like of the time
it's the
husband um and I was I just thinking
about how that kind of some people might
see it as a choice go to you yeah I
should be laughing here but or take care
of myself listen there's a reason
because I I understand how trapped
people feel I think that you sign on for
this thing that feels so good love we
fall in love so fast have you seen that
doent on Netflix American dream was it
American what was that documentary on
Netflix where the guy has a wife and two
kids and then he meets a younger woman
out and about at work and he instead of
getting a divorce he decides to murder
his wife and the two baby girls smother
them both and dump them in a barrel at
work in and he's seemingly I obviously
he's not but
seemingly no he's seemingly a normal guy
yeah who as you say just looked like he
was trapped in a situation where he met
someone new had this family didn't know
how to handle it and made this horrific
decision yeah yeah I mean I think um I
mean that's an extreme example but I I
actually when you spend enough time with
people who are
in horrifyingly awful situations like
they've they're having an affair for
many
years they've hidden money or they done
you know like they they've engaged in
transgressions that if their spouse
found out about it they would just be
like are you kidding me you know and I
think most of the time like it
starts with just one sort of bad choice
you know and then that bad choice leads
to a series of choice like you know they
always say if you watch enough serial
killer things it's not the crime it's
the coverup you know you don't get
caught for the crime you get caught for
the cover up it's like the things you do
to try to cover Your Tracks is the thing
leave the tracks and it's it's the same
I I I think have you seen murder in your
practice do you deal with that is that
part of your work I you know thank God I
I've only had one client in 25 years of
practice who there was an active effort
made by their spouse to try to kill them
and they they ran her over four times
and stabbed her um thought she was dead
left her for dead and six months of
surgeries and all kinds of things later
she survived she's well she has injuries
for the rest of her life that will
plague her but she is alive and he is in
prison for the rest of his life uh
that's thank God the only time I've ever
seen that happen I mean I see a lot of
domestic violence I see a lot of
intimate partner abuse she was your
client in that case she was my client in
that case yeah she was your client
before that happened to her yeah she was
my client before that happened to her he
was a he was a a perpetrator of domestic
violence for many years but there was
nothing in his history that would lead
you to believe that he had that prop it
towards violence the divorce was going
very badly for him I was doing my job
very well um and he you know he I don't
want to say he snapped because he gives
it too much credit um I I I think he
just got it in his head that she was his
enemy and the cause of everything bad
that had ever happened to him and that
killing her would be better choice and
he got her to meet him in a a a sort of
remote location a parking lot of a hotel
under a false pretense that he wanted to
give her something related to the kids
or something and uh he stabbed her
several times then ran her over several
times he did it himself did it himself
yeah he did it himself and it was it was
shocking I mean you you don't want it
what's happened more commonly is I've
had clients who've committed suicide and
self harm and I've had clients who their
spouse um you know committed suicide
that's happened many times where people
I think feel they they're losing
everything their whole life's Fallen
falling apart they can't imagine what
their post divorce life will be or
they're so horrified by the behavior
they engaged in during that they they
think that it's just impossible to get
out of this situation so you would be
working with a client and then you get a
notification an email a message saying
that they've ended their life yeah yeah
it's more commonly happened to me it's
only happened to me where I a client I
lost a client that way once it's
happened four times on the other side
where I got an email saying this
person's been found and um you know it
ends the case obviously
so it's a
hard thing as a professional because I
know that I've done a lot to make this
person's life very difficult because
that's my job but if that person had
hired
me you know a month before their house
did I would have been arguing for their
benefit I would have been arguing as
their Advocate I would have been trying
to help them as best I can and instead I
was hired by their spouse and my job is
to kind of take them apart as best I can
like I'm a weapon you know a divorce
lawyer is a weapon and a weapon in the
hands of a good person is protects
things and a weapon in the hands of a
villain is very harmful
so how's your work hav made you CME yeah
sure absolutely I think I've cried for a
lot of reasons about my work I've cried
cried from frustration when I couldn't
when Justice wasn't served and and I
felt that I could have done more or
different um out of frustration I've
cried I've cried I think I've cried more
often out of beauty I I I I'm much more
welled up by what I by things that are
beautiful to me than things that are
upsetting to me like I I'm astounded by
the strength of people sometimes I'm
astounded by the resilience of people um
you think of an
example on either end of the spectrum
yeah yeah
um you know I had a client I got him his
dog
back you know there's something about
animals that I think is just so like
it's just so pure how much we love them
like they don't really they don't care
what we make they don't care if we're
impressive or not or if anybody bought
our book if anybody how many views we
have or clicks we have like they don't
they just love us you know maybe it's
cuz we feed them maybe it's cuz we
scratch them the right way but I want to
believe that it's just that they're just
so much heart and so much love you know
and I had this guy who at the beginning
of the case he just said look man I
don't care like I don't care what I have
to pay her I don't care what get me my
dog like just get me my dog she doesn't
really love the dog but she took the dog
because she knows how much I love the
dog so just get me my dog back like I
just want my dog back and he was this
older cruff guy this the last guy you
would think you know would like that the
dog would be that important to him and
we fought really hard we and we got him
his dog back and I remember when I came
out and I ran down the lake okay I got
you this we got you this we got you this
and you and the dog and he started
crying and I started crying like a child
you know because I there was just
something so beautiful about like that
yeah that's What mattered to him like
that he got his dog back you know and
and I I could imagine in my head like
the the reunion between those two and
that was very moving to me the
impermanence of a relationship with a
dog is something that I've heard you
talk about before yeah and how we can
and sort of the impermanence the fact
that we only have dogs for a short time
I've got a dog as well and I've had it
since it was a puppy and it now has gray
hairs and it's older and it doesn't run
like it used to and little Pablo I'm get
I'm now realizing that he's in the last
season of his life yeah um and it just
makes you want to play with them more
and cherish those moments more and be
kinder and give them another treat and
yeah and we're we're If we're
honest we're we're always losing
everyone all the
time like and and that's why to love
anything is
insane right because to love anything is
to expose yourself to the inevitability
of losing it and I've learned that I
learned that as a hospice volunteer for
many years and I've learned that as a
human being and I've learned that as a
divorce lawyer that like we're all
losing everything all the time even our
child like you have a child that child
tomorrow the child they were the day
before is dead is gone they're a new
thing every day until you know until all
of us are ghosts until all of us are
gone and so to
me keeping that awareness in your mind
is everything like like you you honor
that dog by saying you know what I I
took for granted when this was a puppy
peeing on everything and running around
and eating all my shoes you know like I
I didn't realize like there was a
limited amount of time like there is a
there is a finite number of times you
will watch the sunset you don't know
that number but it exists you just don't
know it yet there's only so many more
Summers that you will be here to see you
just don't know the number it could be
one it could be a hundred I it's
probably not a hundred right so I think
to
me when people say like well how is a
divorce lawyer so like you know into
love and such a romantic at heart like
how could you not be how could you not
be when you're confronted every day with
how fragile love is and how transient it
is and how powerful it is it's it means
so much to us so much of what we do all
day is to find love and to be loved and
to feel worthy of love and and and then
we have it and we just kind of forget we
have it until it's going away and then
it's too late or it's gone and now it's
completely too late like if you realize
was it Pablo you're done if you realize
how amazing Pablo is when Pablo's gone
shame on you like you should when you
pick him up and smell him you know like
that's the to me like that's everything
there there's a I don't know if you ever
read tikn Han's work the Buddhist monk
so tikn Han was a um a Vietnamese
Buddhist monk he was nominated for the
Nobel Peace Prize in like the 80s he
wrote some beautiful books he passed
away a few years ago but he wrote um
several books one of them being peace is
a beautiful one he's written a whole
bunch of books peace in every step but
he he as a Buddhist monk has this
mindfulness
exercise and I've said it to people I've
shared it with people a couple times
they always look at me like I'm insane
when I say it so I'll share it with you
because you you brought up death if I
bring it up too much in polite
conversation people just think I'm
morbid and then they're like all right
all this guy does is talk about death
and divorce we got to hang out with like
nicer more fun people but he has this
mindfulness exercise and it's this he
says when you hug someone think about
the fact that they're there and you're
hugging
them then close your eyes and they think
about that they've died
and this is the last time you're hugging
them before you let go of their body and
it's taken
away and then remember that they're
alive and you're hugging
them like how could that not choke you
up like how could you not like when you
hug your
dog you you will someday most likely
have to put your dog down right you will
have to make the very painful but very
responsible and loving decision that the
best of this dog's life is over and that
there's nothing but pain ahead I've had
to do it several times in my life it's
heartbreaking but it's the Final Act of
love and service to something that
you've had dominion over and taken care
of and have the duty of taking care of
and I I know every time you I've had to
do that three times and just smelling it
and going oh that's it like that's it
it's gone now
and the memory of that
scent it'll
fade but like right
now that dog's alive Pablo's alive and
you can smell him and and and and you're
not letting go of him now he's there
he's there right now like so how do you
not right now just breathe that in every
chance you have because you don't know
how many more times you'll have and and
I don't when people say to me like well
how can you think so much about death or
how can you think so much about break
like how can you not haven't you ever
lost anything have you
forgotten what it was like to have it
like did you not keep in your mind like
how beautiful this was and how it's gone
like my mother died eight years
ago and I I found a old video tape that
I didn't even know like existed and it
was my dad had like gotten a video
camera and he'd like shot you know all
these video and I could hear my mother's
voice and like hearing it I went like it
oh my God like that was her voice like I
haven't heard it in eight years and I
heard it again and it was so familiar
you know and I thought to myself oh my
God like I'm so glad I got to hear that
but when she was alive I never thought
like oh my God she's here like I get to
hear her voice because
someday that'll be gone like it'll be
gone the memory of her voice will be
gone it will fade every like tears and
rain it will just fade and so to to me
like that if we could just have that
presence of mind when it comes to love
like love is not permanently gifted it
is
loaned and the people you love the dog
you love the people they're loaned to
you and you're Lo to them and if you
could just remember every day to treat
it like something that's impermanent and
that you're losing all the time like cuz
I I'll tell you something I think it's
insane to love anything because of the
pain that it's going to cause but oh my
God man I love that pain because it
means I got to feel it like I I I know
when I got my dog
cabba I only got cabba because bustard
died if he hadn't died then I never
would have had room in my life to get
another dog so in some horrible way I
guess I'm glad that he di like but
that's not how it works how it works is
that he died Buster and I went I will
never love again I will never do this to
myself again I will never feel this pain
again it's the worst thing in the world
I will never expose myself to that and
then a friend called me up and said hey
man we're doing an adoption event with
this dog and I just need you to watch
him for the night he's a puppy he's got
M he's a little goofy thing but like I
just need you to watch him for the night
and I was like yeah you know what I
don't have the kids this weekend like
I'll watch a dog for a
night then you fell in love brings this
stupid dog this little stupid mange
ridden
worms and he walks in to my apartment
and he pees immediately on the floor and
I thought oh I just got a
dog I just got a dog again I'm doing
this again and that was 13 years ago and
man I'm so glad like I'm so glad and and
he'll he'll sit there you know with his
little gray face now and he'll sit there
next to me and he'll look at me he's
just is crazy about me as I am about him
because he knows I saved him and I know
he saved
me and he looks at me and I think to
myself oh you're going to kill me like
you're going to kill me when I lose you
and it's going to happen sooner rather
than then later I'm not going to have
another 13 years I'm lucky if I have
another year but man like I don't know
I'll do it I I'm so glad I did it he
saved you yeah yeah because he he he
reminded me of a thing I forget that we
all forget that I have an infinite
capacity for
love no matter what I
lose cuz we're just losing all of it all
the time
but that's not a reason not to love
that's not a reason not to like it's
it's so brave to
love and it's only brave because it's
scary like if you're not scared it's not
brave it's only brave because it's
terrifying it's terrifying to know like
this thing's going to break my heart and
I'm going to let it I'm going to let it
break my heart because the joy that it's
going to give me in the interim like I
wouldn't trade that for for anything in
the world and and you know right now if
you say to me when cabba passes away
will I ever do it again I'm like nope
absolutely not absolutely not but you
know what I'm lying I'm lying like I'm
lying I'll I'll love again I know it I
know it and and I think it's the same
thing with romantic love our hearts get
broken we we we you know we fall apart
we break in relationship and we heal in
relationship and we recover from that
breaking in relationship and I I think
there's
something really really important
there you you've really accomplished me
the first person who got me to cry on a
podcast it's pretty it's really
something to be proud of I cry all the
time though to answer your question yeah
I cry constantly for a guy who's like
tattooed up and down and does Brazilian
jiu-jitsu for fun I cry constantly
usually because something's
beautiful I think that that's what moves
me the most is how beautiful it all is
like I I think this is all it's a game
we can't win you know and we just keep
playing it and that's so lovely like
it's so brave it's so it's so cool that
like it's all ending all the time and we
just keep doing it you know we just keep
doing it CU if there's something in our
hearts that wants it you know maybe
that's I don't know like I'm not a
religious person
but maybe that's some insight into the
nature of God
that that like we we come from something
and we disconnect and then we spend all
our life trying to reconnect to
something want to talk to you about our
sponsor LinkedIn for all the
entrepreneurs and business owners that
listen to this podcast you'll probably
want to hear this one so stay tuned for
a second whenever you're scaling and
building a business your business needs
are completely unique and I've been
there I know what struggles you're
facing and what allows you to land your
next dream client and one tool that is
an absolute must is LinkedIn ads you'll
have direct access access to a billion
LinkedIn members yes a billion members
access to 70 million decision makers and
10 million CLE Executives on LinkedIn
the pool of individuals that LinkedIn
allows you to access is insane and
uncomparable and you'll know if you
follow me on LinkedIn how prolific I am
on LinkedIn LinkedIn to me is actually
the highest returning paid social
platform and I don't think people quite
realize that so I'm giving you the
diverio community a
$100 credit on your next LinkedIn ad
campaign head to linkedin.com doac 24 to
get started now the link is in the
description below it's interesting
because you I saw in your face when we
halfway through the conversation that um
you were talking about how beautiful
love was and I could see the emotion in
your face when you talking about how
beautiful love is and it's it's
contrasting because at the start of the
conversation I would have thought that
you thought marriage and love was just
this like terrible idea obviously
there's a distinction between the two
it's everything no it's everything I I
think I think doing what I do for a
living I see that better than most
people like because we just keep putting
these giant bets on the table and we
wouldn't do it if we didn't think the
prize was worth it you know but see I
also believe
too that we need to start looking at
romantic relationships like chapters in
a long
book like I don't soulmates we but but
see soul I have to tell you whoever
created the term soulmate like I owe
them a tremendous debt of gratitude
because they they really helped
facilitate divorcees in Industry because
the idea that we have a
soulmate and that that's the
one always creates the possibility that
a this person's perfect for us for how
could I be dissatisfied with them if
they're perfect for me I must have
picked the wrong one and look that one
over there that might be the perfect one
why because I feel as great about them
as I did about this one when I first met
it but I just don't remember that as
much anymore so the soulmate thing oh
it's great for business for me but I
think it's terrible for human beings I
think you probably could have a whole
bunch of
people that you could have had a very
satisfying romantic relationship with
again not to keep comparing things to
dogs but like because you love the dog
you have now does it mean you didn't
really love the dog you had like that's
ridiculous it's like people who have
children don't go like well I you know I
couldn't love anything more than this
other child so I'm not having any more
children because you know I couldn't
possibly love it's like no you have an
infinite capacity for love so if you
have two children you have five children
like you love all the children that you
have you know so it's chapters you're
saying I think you should look at
relationships as chapters just because a
relationship
ends in something other than death right
it ends in divorce it ends in a breakup
whatever it might be it doesn't mean it
wasn't successful did did you leave it a
better person than than you came to it
with did did they did your partner did
did you learn from it did did you learn
what you want or don't want did you
learn how you should behave or how you
shouldn't behave did you learn something
about how you want and need to be
loved or how you fail in your attempts
to convey love to someone else like it
why not look at it as what was good for
me in this chapter may not be the
sustaining thing like who you find
attractive and what's compelling in your
20s and your 30s and your 40s and your
50s it's going to be different you talk
to a lot of 20-some year olds and say
what car do you want when you're in your
Lambo want the lambo great you're going
to put a car seat Lambo if you get one
car and that's car you're going to drive
for the rest of your life okay and
you've never been 50 yet so you don't
know what you're going to want when
you're 50 now there's this idealized
thing where everybody goes like well but
you know you'll grow together and then
what you'll want you'll grow together
and you'll change okay where what are
you BAS in that on like is that is that
a thing is that demonstrably true or is
that just like your hope like we we hope
we'll grow together and we'll grow in
complimentary ways because why because
of proximity because we're near each
other we're going to grow in
complimentary ways like is that naive I
think that might be naive like I don't
have any proof of that God so many of
the couples you see they must be
confused as to whether this relationship
is actually broken or we're just like
not doing the work I think that about a
lot of my friends like they they'll come
to me and say my relationship struggling
and the first thing you try and figure
out is whether this is something that is
fixable or it's they're the wrong and
what do you do in that equation you
compare right yeah you compare and what
are you compareed to something fake
yes you compare to something
fake you compare it to the romcom yeah
which is basically porn for women yeah
right like it's it's an idealized
stylized version you saw Titanic you you
know why they had that perfect romance
cuz he died before he could screw it up
you think 10 years later she'd have been
like keep painting your French girls go
no she wouldn't have she'd have been
like forget it what are you doing get a
job you know there would have been
issues in that relationship so it only
was perfect because it ended it ended
before they could screw it up you know
they end the movie like the the old
thing I think it was Orson Wells who
said you know whether something's a
comedy or a tragedy depends on when you
end the story you know so it's
relationships like you ever want to test
that theory in the reverse go out with a
couple that's unhappy with each other
and then say to them so tell me about
how you met all of a sudden they like
soften tremendously and they start like
talking about who the who they were and
who their partner was back in that day
when they when it was all a possibility
and and they were choosing each other
you know and so I think there's
tremendous value
in you know great example I always try
to like take non-relationship examples
of relationship
items so one of my sons when he was a
teenager was very critical of me as a
father he was very like sort of
dismissive of me as a father we were
talking about something and he sort of
said like well Dad you know you're not
like the perfect father and I said well
first of all like I don't know what a
perfect father is I was like but what
are you comparing me to
your idea of a perfect father or like a
father you actually know and have
seen because here's the thing if you
compare me to your perfect father in
your imagination I'm going to compare
you to my perfect son in my imagination
and guess what you
suck cuz CU we all suck compared to the
ideal of our imagination and by the way
I said to him learn this lesson now
because if you compare a woman you're in
a relationship with with your imagined
ideal of a woman I promise you you will
be dissatisfied for the rest of your
life in your
relationship and if she Compares You To
Her idealized Imagination of what the
perfect man would be she's going to be
disappointed we need to start comparing
relationships to real relationships but
how are we going to do that if we're so
deeply committed to lying to each other
about how great our relationship is
what's the quickest someone's gone from
Marriage to divorce that you've seen in
terms of how long the relationship
lasted yeah 48 hours you're joking no 48
hours but that's usually an annulment
that's I mean Vegas baby um yeah it
happens sometimes that happens sometimes
where people just have like immediate
immediate regret you know or they
married on a whim I mean you can there's
no like there's a waiting period to get
a firearm you know there's a waiting
period for almost anything marriage you
go right now get married no problem you
just go you just go to Justice of the
Peace pay $40 license fee and you're
married that's it go to Vegas you can
get b guy Nam guy dressed like Elvis
will marry you for 50 bucks you said
there's two main reasons why people get
divorced infidelity which we've talked
about and the other one we haven't
talked about which is money I found this
very interesting because um I wouldn't
imagine that money issues and it's not
the money issues we think about it's not
someone going broke yeah it's not that
in your book you talk about it being
trans
transparency yeah so so I mean money is
power right money has a lot to do with
power
and I think there's a lot you know
there's a it's a misattributed to Oscar
wild but it's not something he would
have said there's the saying that that
everything in the world is about sex
except sex which is about
power and I think money is about power
money is about
control money is about opportuni
security it's about a whole bunch of
things but it's not really about money
like money is just a a currency right
that we trade in so I think money has a
whole bunch of complicated stuff tied up
in it it's why we can't in polite
conversation like talk about what did
you pay for that how much do you make
you know it's it's considered sort of
and delicate to do that because we've
loaded it up with all kinds of emotional
things about worth and relative worth
and so you know it's not
uncommon that people are dishonest with
themselves and with each other
money it's also not uncommon in a
relationship that one of two Dynamics
emerges
either one person has a tremendous
amount of economic disparity like
Leverage or they have economic power
that they can or or can't leverage
because of marriage or both people have
somewhat equal bargaining positions and
then something changes so like I see a
tremendous number of of divorces when
husband and wife are both working and
husband loses
job big big precipitar for divorce
because men it sends them spiraling into
a depression that they've lost this job
that much of how they Define themselves
in sort of the traditional masculine
gender role is that of a provider and a
protector and now I failed at that
through no fault of my own they laid off
the entire Northeast region it's not my
fault but I no longer have a job and
then I have to go around and try to find
what and redefine myself and at the same
time my spouse has managed to keep their
job and I've seen a lot of women that
when their spouse loses the job and they
become the breadwinner they find that
very unappealing that they they that a
man as the bread winner was appealing
the man as economic equal is appealing
the man as I have to take care of him
financially and provide for him very
uncomfortable so I see when a man loses
his job I I would love if they kept
statistics on these kinds of things but
I can tell you in my practice I've seen
plenty of women lose their job it has no
impact on the marriage men lose their
job in a heterosexual male female
marriage it is it is disastrous
consequences a great deal of the
time and I think that has a lot to do
again it's not about money it's about
what the money symbolizes it's about
providing it's about power control
respect for the ability to to to go out
there and like Forge something from the
world we said at the start of this
conversation on this subject of money
sometimes you give legal advice and
sometimes you give human advice as it
relates to money should I be telling my
partner how much money I have because I
imagine there's kind of two different
legal there's a legal answer and a human
answer yeah I mean they're entitled to
find out so like part of yeah part of
part of well in a divorce you have
what's called mandatory discovery which
is that I have a right to review all of
your financials in that process so a
tremendous amount of what I do all day
and my team is they we go through
people's books like we go through the
credit card slips we got through all the
economics to find out like where the
money is where it went you know and
that's how we find out what everybody
spent on their girlfriend or boyfriend
and all the credit card receipts really
when someone says I've got the receipts
like no I've got the receipts because I
can I can subpoena them meaning I can
get them directly from the credit card
company I can get them directly from
your employer all your about what you
actually were given and it's very hard
to move money around without leaving a
trace these days like but a lot of
people then must be trying to hide money
cuz I think I've heard of cases where
there was one particular case of a
footballer who apparently put everything
in his mother's name did you see that
mean yes and the problem with that is
it's a great story makes for a great
story but there are in most
jurisdictions protections against that
because it's what's called a a transfer
in contemplation of divorce so so it's
essentially a form it's like a
fraudulent conveyance it's it's designed
to thwart someone's
otherwise appropriate legal remedy so if
I know I'm being
sued and that this person has a valid
claim so I sell my Lamborghini for $5 to
my brother the court can void that
transaction but what if I before that
before there was any you know suspicion
of divorce or any issues I put
everything in my my brother's or my
mom's name do that you're allowed to do
as long as it was not done yeah I
actually have seen that many times I
I've seen well I represent a lot of
people in finance and people in finance
have a way of seeing money very
differently and I've seen people who
over a 20year period like did things to
take things out of the marital estate so
that they were beyond the reach of the
Court let's be quite surprising when
you're the other partner and you assume
that your partner is super rich you go
for the divorce and you find out that
they they nothing it's more common that
people don't realize the debt structure
that they're living under because a lot
of people live under a tremendous debt
structure this happens in Celebrity
divorces a lot because a lot of it is
the appearance of wealth but it's not
actual wealth and so you know they're
they're highly leveraged and so what
does that mean for the average person
that doesn't know what credit card debt
primarily credit card debt is a big
thing or that cars that you don't own
the cars you lease the cars so they're
actually owned by the bank even your
home if if your home you know 70 80% of
the equity in your home is the bank's
mortgage then you don't really have much
you don't own your home the bank owns
your home I think this is something
people misunderstand is that you get 50%
of your partner's assets and you get 50%
of their debts of course well you get
your you get the assets net of
liabilities yeah and most people like
their net worth is what do you own net
of liabilities so there are a lot of
people making a very very good living
but they don't really have a lot of
assets because what they've done is
they've leveraged in a tremendous way
they have they have mortgages and and
they have debts accumulating they have
leased automobiles they have you know
jewelry that they took a personal loan
to guarantee where that they purchased
jewelry knowing that it will immediately
depreciate in value you know that the
resale on it is much much lower than the
value that they just paid for it so it's
a it's a it's an illusion in many ways
what about the opposite of that where
someone was in a relationship ship and
their partner thought they were like
broke or didn't have much money it turns
out their sound a fortune yeah what's
actually funnier is when somebody when
someone really through no fault of even
their own comes into some massive amount
of money like I've had people I actually
had a client who won the
lottery and so he went from like nothing
he had like a minimum wage kind of a job
and they lived a very modest life and
they were unhappily married but they
were like well we you know can't really
afford to live as a couple we certainly
can't afford to live apart like it's bad
enough we can't pay our electric bill to
have two electric bills we'd have a hell
of a time and he won the lottery he used
to play the Power Ball and he won like
you know some insane amount it was like
I don't know $50 million so then after
taxes it's like a 50% tax it was like
$25 million and he was beyond thrilled
until he got told yeah she's gets half
she gets exactly half and he was like
wait why I bought the ticket I'm like
you are one person in the eyes of the
law if she won the lottery you'd get
half of it you won the lottery she gets
half of it it's how it works did they
stay together no of course not she was
like they're miserable with each other I
mean at that point he was suddenly very
motivated that maybe we should stay
together but she was like I get wait a
minute I get I get you know half a 25
million and I don't have to deal with
you anymore see you and that was it that
was it that's why he was in my office
she had served him with divorce papers
what about
LGBT couples yeah does everything we've
said apply an equal measure do they do
they get divorced in the same do they
have the same issues with talking about
sex do they yeah you know I don't I I
don't think I think a lot of the same
things are true meaning impermanence
soulmates all of those kinds of issues
but I think
because gay and lesbian couples were
forced to the outskirts of the culture
they were the outsider for so long so
much of my life even as a 51-year-old
man so much of my life I saw my gay and
lesbian friends ostracized marginalized
and put on the
periphery that when you are put on the
periphery there is as awful as that is
and as unfair as that is and unjust as
that is and how much it should rightly
offend our sensibility to see people
marginalized and
ostracized it creates a certain Freedom
where it's like okay then we we don't
have to follow those rules we can make
our own rules invention yeah we can just
we can do it how we want to do it
because you know what they think we
stink they think we're the worst they
think we're just you know okay so then
we can we can do it how we want to do it
because no matter what they're not going
to accept us so we might as well do it
the way it makes sense for us instead of
you know tradition is pure pressure from
dead people so if you're someone who's
like my parents have rejected me sorry
tradition is is peer pressure exerted by
dead people I mean it's really what it
is I'm not saying Traditions aren't
valuable but at their core tradition is
peer pressure from dead people like your
grandma did it this way so you should do
it this way like okay your grandma lived
in a whole different time your grandma
did not have the entire totality of
human wisdom in her hand that she could
press a few buttons on so to say oh yeah
like the same rules the same
institutions the same ways of being
they should be exactly the same that's
insane we didn't make rules for
non-heterosexual relationships so they
they're getting to make their own rules
and it turns out and they did and they
did like I have a lot of gay male
friends I live in Chelsea which is a
section of New York City that for many
years was a primarily gay male section
to live in and so I happen to have a lot
of gay male friends and it's very funny
to me because when I would talk to them
even before marriage equality and before
the sort of widespread accept of gay and
lesbian families um and gay and lesbian
lives and relationships as being valid
like it wasn't that long ago that Will
and Grace like will couldn't kiss his
boyfriend on TV this was like the 90s
that that was going on so this isn't
that long ago G I have suits older than
that like this is a thing so what you
know they they used to my gay mail
friends used to have these very kind of
non-conventional permutations of
relationships they were like yeah you
know we we can kiss other people but
like we can't have sex with other people
or we can do oral sex with other people
we can't but we have to let them know
that we're doing like because they were
like Hey we're on the outskirts we get
to kind of make up our own rules and
there's something very and what's funny
to me about that is when marriage
equality was coming about and i' I've
been a Consulting attorney for for
something called lamba Legal which is a
a gay and lesbian legal defense which
you know 20 years ago it meant like the
the right to exist like the right to
like not be fired from your job because
you're gay like that seems to me like
basic human rights you know the idea now
like we've gone quite far in terms of
now there's some controversies that I
kind of go okay wait I'm not quite sure
even as someone who's identified as a
progressive liberal for quite some of my
life I I don't know that I can go this
bridge too far but but the basic
fundamental right like the right to
marry I always felt you know what if you
want to be able to participate in this
unbelievably failing technology you have
every right in the world like if you
hate gay people let them marry why
should they be having all the fun like
let them marry and I remember sort of
thinking that jokingly and when marriage
equality finally happened in the United
States I went to a good friend of mine
who will remain nameless and I said to
him he'd been in a long-term
relationship maybe like two years and I
said so man psyched you like you know
you get married he goes no I'm not
psyched why would I be excited about
this and I said what do you mean like
you can get married now he goes yeah
like I never had to deal with that I
never had to have the
conversation it never had to be like you
know where's this going you know are we
in a he's like if anything I could go
like oh I would marry you but oh the
government they won't let me oh I wish I
wish we could but the government it's
out of my hands he's like now
now I have to have this conversation now
I have to like well where is this going
and are we getting married and what do
you think and if we should we move in
and should we even kids should we have
kids like it used to be we were barred
from having kids or adopting kids now we
can adopt kids it's no problem it's like
great now I got to have that
conversation so again I'm not
suggesting that that we shouldn't have
marriage equality we shouldn't have the
freedom to adopt and to have children
but I I think it's a fan bargain for
everybody and and so
my experience of of gay and lesbian
couples currently cuz I'm currently
doing a number of divorces for lesbian
couples and gay
couples I think that you know the
honeymoon period isn't quite over yet
like marriage equality has only been the
law of the land for like you know 10
years something like that so give it
some time we'll see maybe they're better
at it maybe they'll be worse at it maybe
they'll be just as equally awful at it
as we are what about open relationships
do they work
more you know I'm I'm not qualified to
answer that question for the following
reason I meet a lot of people who have
tried
various types of ethical non- monogamy
polyamory but they all have in common
that they're in my office yeah of course
so I see all the ones that didn't work
yeah so me saying well I've met a lot of
couples where they tried the polyamory
thing or they tried ethical non monogamy
and it didn't work and it led to divorce
is like an oncologist saying like dude
everybody's got cancer I met like 10
people today who have cancer right
you're an oncologist like of course you
meet a lot of people that have cancer
like a a guy who's a cab driver doesn't
meet that many people who have cancer
like you might meet one or two but he's
not going to meet all of them but you
working cancer so you're going to meet
people like I happen to meet people
getting divorced so all of the I've met
a lot of people that gave that a shot
and it did not work now again was that
the like in case of emergency break
glass like let's just try this have you
ever seen it
work I've never in any of my friendships
in any of my personal relationships I've
never seen non-
monogamy successful but I don't think
we're quite at a place as a
culture where we're really being honest
about monogamy like Esther Perell some
of her work I think is brilliant about
monogamy infidelity because I I don't
think it's quite I think there are a lot
of couples where there is non- monogamy
happening but there's sort of a don't
ask don't tell policy and there's a
sense of you know if this is what you
need to do to sort of stay happily
committed because if we're honest a a
marriage is a whole bunch of different
relationships in one relationship it's
your roommate it's your co-parent it's
your travel companion it's your family
companion meaning like they have to deal
with your mother-in-law and your
father-in-law too and like it's a whole
bunch of
relationships and it may be that men and
women or a particular man and a
particular woman in a relationship have
a different sense of how important sex
is and you know it's okay to
delegate it's okay to say you know
listen I don't really like football so
go watch football with your friends do
you see that a lot where the partner or
the the other partner that you're not
dealing with has accepted yes the other
partner cheating well not cheating but
they've allowed them to just quietly go
in I've had a lot of people who come in
and say to me he had a bunch of Affairs
over the years and I just let it go like
or she had a bunch of Affairs over the
years and it wasn't didn't make an issue
of it yeah really and see just the fact
that you and it's understandable I'm not
criticizing you but the fact that you go
really is okay why would that be that
shocking like people cheat all the time
people step outside of their
relationship all the time people like
diversity of sexual partners okay so
here's the question then have you ever
seen an affair in the presence of
someone being in love I don't know that
i''d be qualified to say whether someone
was in love or not here here's what I
will say because love is an emotion and
Love Is A Verb so I've seen I've
certainly seen people that were having
Affairs and in every aspect of their
outward life appear to be deeply
committed to their marriage okay so they
were okay they were an economic provider
they were a diligent parent they were uh
attentive to the emotional state of
their partner they still had an active
sexual relationship with their partner
but it wasn't a uh let's say a terribly
prolific one perhaps um so you can't
cheat and be in love sure I mean listen
just the term cheat you know like like
okay well then a cheat meal like you can
be on a healthy diet and enjoy a cheat
meal you know and and it there's
something great about it because it's a
cheap meal it's like a little thing you
do to treat yourself and then you go
back to eating healthy and regular right
because look at there's something about
the human desire for variety there's
something about passion I mean you know
I always say this I'm not a religious
person but like we're all familiar with
the Ten Commandments you know and and
theoretically if that story is true
which again it's not provable or
disprovable but God handed down 10 rules
like that's they talked to humanity and
said here's 10 rules don't kill good one
honor the Sabbath good one okay don't
cheat on your
spouse don't covet your neighbor's wife
it got two it got two rules like he
didn't say thou shalt not kill like
seriously don't kill that's no but but
don't sleep with other people got two
out of 10 rules from God theoretically
like that's amazing that should show you
how long this has been a thing how human
of a problem or issue or compulsion this
is it's the most human thing this desire
like yeah we want to you know Freud
civilization and its disconect intense
you know all of these all of these
Brilliant Minds from all over the world
over the whole span of time have
struggled with monogamy have struggled
with sex have struggled with the desire
for sex Wars are fought over sex people
rise and Empires rise and fall people
rise and fall I I I used to say that
like I think 90% of what most of the men
I do they do to get
laid they do they why work card so I can
make money why so I can get a nice car
why so I can attract beautiful women
like look at look at the red pill space
the manosphere all this everything is
about making yourself appealing to women
or making yourself appealing to
potential sexual partners whether it's
just one or a whole diversity of them
okay that's a different thing but it's
about that it's about
that so should we get
married should we get married I mean
from a job security place I hope people
continue to get married because if they
don't I'll be out of a job but in
seriousness I I don't
think I think we will continue to get
married should
we I don't think we should say all of us
should I think we should ask the
question I think we shouldn't assume we
should get married that's what I think I
think that we should ask the question
what is the problem to which marriage is
a solution and do I have that problem
and will it solve that problem because
the fact that it's an odd question to
say when someone says I want to get
married that it would be odd for me to
go
why yeah why is that weird like if you
said I want to have a
podcast why it's a perfectly reasonable
question I want to go to
Florida why I like the weather I have a
friend there whatever I want to get
married why what do people respond when
when you typically ask that question
what's the most frequent response to the
reason for the invention of the
technology of marriage because I I
posted many years ago that I I was
suspicious about marriage and I remember
all the comments that I got and
different people arguing different
things well it's it holds them it holds
the it's controversial it's super
controversial people get very attached
to it I remember one of them I remember
was a case that it's the best
environment to raise kids in when the
parents are in that kind of bond I had
another one which means that you stay
and you solve the problems instead of
running away so marriage is really good
for that regard but but you know the
reasons why people say marriage makes
sense what are those key reasons why I
think that there's religious reasons
that's a big one I get all the time like
like in the comments there will be like
a billion people that go marriage is a
covenant between God and and as if like
I hadn't heard of this you know as if I
didn't go to Catholic School my entire
life like yes I get it I get it that's a
belief you have and that's okay like my
beliefs don't require that you believe
them yours may require that I believe
them and that's okay like where' you
going to agree to disagree if your
fundamental thing is that God spoke to
you and told you a thing whether it was
in written form or verbally like I can't
argue with that you sound like you're a
big fan of love and not a big fan of
marriage I'm a fan of marriage to the
extent that it facilitates love but I
just don't see a Nexus between those two
things I don't think these two two
things have that much to do with each
other and I think to the extent that
they have something to do with each
other they probably could have existed
without the marriage like I think I
think marriage is a symbol of something
and I don't think you need the symbol to
have the something it's confusing a
finger pointing at the Moon with the
moon like it's it's confusing the the
the S like marriage is supposed to be I
think a symbol and I love it for that I
love the idea of two people people who
are so excited about how they make each
other feel and how the effect they have
on each other and the effect that the
other has on them that they want to get
up in front of a bunch of people who
they know and say this is my person I
found them and I'm I'm going to stick
with them through good and through bad
and I'm going to see their blind spots
and I'm going to not be a yes man I'm
going to tell them when they get wrong
but with love and I want them to do the
same thing for me I want them to to
cheer for me and I want them to be on my
side and I want them to disagree with me
when I need to be disagreed with so I
don't make really dumb decisions just
because I got a cheerleader all the time
behind me like I got a cheerleader
because I need one the world sucks and
everybody's always criticizing me and I
criticize myself constantly but having
this person next to me who goes man you
can do this come on get up you can do it
you know or I fell down it's okay people
fall down you're great get up come on
you can do it or who's going to say to
me you know that's I know you're doing
this for this reason and I get it but I
don't I don't think it's going to make
you feel what you think it's going to
make you feel so maybe don't do it and
I'm going to go okay they wouldn't say
that if it wasn't out of love so I'm
going to hear that and I'm not going to
be afraid of it like and I want to get
up we're going to say this to a bunch of
people and then we're going to wear
Rings because it'll be a reminder for us
and for the world that I got a person I
got a person and that's my person you
know dude how do you not cheer for that
that's incredible it's great but you can
have that without the yeah of course
without the contract are you going to
get the government involved like well
you have to get the government involved
really like you that story I just told
that's that's the story that's the
feeling that's the interpersonal connect
when you say to most
people they say I'm getting married you
go
why they first of all they look at you
like you have lobsters coming out of
your nose like they've never the
question never even occurred to them why
because you get married that's what you
do that's insane but if you say to them
why they'll usually say something that's
a total non-answer well I'm in love okay
what why does that mean you have to get
married well because I want to you know
I want to maintain that connection okay
wait how how specifically is marriage
going to maintain that connection and
again if it's a public declaration okay
I think there's value in a public declar
if I want to I don't smoke cigarettes
but if I wanted if I was smoking
cigarettes I want to quit smoking
cigarettes there's value in getting up
and saying hey guys just so y all know
I'm going to quit smoking and if you
love me I want you to help hold me
accountable so if you see me smoking or
if I ask you for a cigarette don't give
me one because I really do want to quit
smoking you know there's value in that
there's value in the tribe all going all
right man you know that's what you want
let's do it we're gonna we're committed
to it it's the same thing with marriage
if Mar if the purpose of marriage is to
say hey guys it's really hard to be
monogamous I don't know if anyone's
noticed so and like the world is really
antagonistic to marriage but like I
really want all the great things that
come from having a person who sees my
blind spots and who's supporting me and
I'm supporting them and the symbiosis
the beauty of that relationship and the
connection of those two people so I want
you to hold me accountable I want you my
friend that when I you see me looking at
the other girl that you go to me hey hey
bro forget about what you got at home
come on man you got a good you got a
good one what are you doing you know
like I want you to hold me accountable I
want women out there to see that wedding
ring and to go yep not him not him even
if he talks to me not him he's married
let's let's leave that one why cuz if if
it was my one I wouldn't want him
talking to some other girl so I'm not
going to talk to him you know instead
it's not what we do that is not what we
do as a culture you ever want to get
laid put on a wedding ring and go out
suddenly you're safe suddenly you're a
guy they can talk to and he's not on the
make because he's married he's obvious
he's wearing an outward symbol of his
relationship again like this is crazy
it's crazy because we're just not being
honest
about what this thing really is marriage
is a legal status it's a government
intervention it's a it it everything
else is just stuff we're putting on top
of it and calling it that thing but you
can have all that stuff without having
legally the status of marit James we
have a closing tradition on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest not knowing who
they're going to be leaving it for but I
might have told them who they're leaving
it
for and the question that's has been
left for you is a brilliant one because
it's very on topic and once in a while
this
happens when was the first time you
experienced true
love oh boy you made me cry
again
um was the first time I experienced true
love gosh that's a great question and
just the fact that just the experience
of being asked that question is running
my mind through the most lovely
slideshow of so many times I felt loved
and felt deep love so boy what a lovely
thing to ask every morning if I could
like that's a lovely question
because just the fact that there's just
the fact that there's a competition
going on in my brain right now is the
greatest thing in the world cuz all the
stuff that's running through my head and
it's so diverse there's me kissing an
amazing woman for the first time and
feeling that there's my sons each of my
sons kissing me or hugging me there is
cabba and Buster and pickles lady and
Maggie every dog I ever had and there's
an image I can imagine of it there's
my the first thing that popped into my
head which is going to sound crazy but
maybe it's the stage in life that I'm in
when I was a little
boy my my father my father was not a
particularly effusively loving guy he
was a Vietnam veteran he was a bad
alcoholic um he's been sober now for
eight years I'm very proud of him um and
he's in his 80s now but growing up he
was very unemotional to me and I
remember um I had this best friend Tom
and we had pizza one night at my my
parents house and um you know pizza's
cut into like eight
slices and Tommy and I were like you
know growing boys we wanted to eat you
know the CRA we ate really fast you know
we each ate our three slices and my dad
would have had two left you know for
him and uh we ate so fast that that our
six slices were gone and there was just
two left and I I know my dad was like
super
hungry but he was like if you guys want
you can have you can have them
and I remember you know we just ate them
like you would obliviously like a kid
and a couple of weeks later I was at my
friend's house same friend and his they
ordered pizza and there was like you
know same thing eight slices and and his
dad ate like four
slices and I remember
thinking my dad would never do
that and I remember I felt very
loved cuz I remember thinking like this
is a guy who' never said he loved me
like ever it just wasn't in his
vocabulary it wasn't who he
was but I just remember thinking like oh
he loves me like it it satisfied him
more to see me eating that extra piece
of pizza than what eating that piece of
pizza would have given to him and I
remember thinking like oh he loves
me so I would say to
me that was a very pure and true kind of
love and when I had my
sons I remember thinking oh I get I get
that like they can have the whole
pizza so to me that's you know that's
true love is when it's it's not even
sacrificing to give that the joy of the
other person just gives you so much joy
and fills you so much that that it's
just the greatest thing
James thank you thank you for um all the
work you do you've given
me so interesting you know went into
this conversation thinking I'd learn
about divorce and relationships but I
leave this conversation with a profound
appreciation for love good that's great
in a way that I don't think I've ever
had before and I also with that profound
appreciation I think causes you to want
to take a certain set of actions I hope
so the and I think about what you said
about the impermanence of Love you've
made me want to cuddle Pablo because I
know that I don't have many years left
with him but also there's many people in
my life that maybe I do have many years
with I don't know how many years I have
with them you don't and I have to tell
you I I think I'm really grateful to
hear you say that I hope you do that
because I really think we are the
most we are the most aware of the joy of
our good health when we're in the
presence of illness we are most aware of
the beauty of life when we're in the
presence of death and the
impermanence and we can be the most
aware of the power and presence and
beauty of romantic love when we remember
that that it is impermanent it is not
permanently gifted it's loaned and that
we're blessed to have it for however
long we have it so if if that's what
anyone walks out of talking to a divorce
lawyer thinking about out then then
mission
accomplished thanks for having me
St we released it the first time and it
sold out instantly we released
conversation cards again and they sold
out instantly for a second time we've
updated the cards put all the new
questions in and we've introduced a
Twist on the back of the conversation
cards now we've got different levels of
vulnerability so level one these are
more sort of surface level questions and
by the time you get down to level three
the questions become a little bit more
challenging a little bit more vulnerable
and that's really where connection
happens the brand new version 2 updated
conversation cards are out right now at
the conversation cards.com
[Music]
ah